We're making good progress and to be honest, we're almost done with what I want to show you.
However it would be nice to have an axis because right now, we can only guess which bar refers to
which country. We can see it down there in our donut chart a little bit at least but here, that's not really
visible,
so that is something I want to change, I want to add an axis, that is what I'll do now. To be precise,
I want to add an x-axis and for that, I'll go to my constructor, here where I set up my svg and then the
container wrapping my bars, here I will set up the axis too.
Now for that I'll create a new private property and that will be my x-axis,
it will be of type d3 selection and then again an svg element because that is what my axis will be in
the end.
Then after I created the bar container,
keep in mind, this is the group containing the individual bars,
below that I want to create my x-axis, store it in this property we just created
and here I will use my svg element,
so this svg, not the bar container but the root svg element
and there, I now want to append another group with append g
So there is now group sitting next to the bar container group which makes sense because the axis is
not in the same group as the bars,
it sits next to it.
And I don't only want to append it,
I also want to give it a class of x-axis, add true here and we're good to go.
Now we have a place where we can render the axis
but of course we also need to create them programmatically,
this isn't done yet.
The place to render such an axis of course is the update method.
As always, if we want to use the data in whatever we do and the axis of course should display our categories
so it should use the data we pass into our chart, in our visual here.
So I will create this axis here
after sizing my svg element, there I will access my x-axis, this property where I store this axis and I'll
add a style to it,
that's another d3 method which allows me to add CSS styles and here, I want to set the font size of
the axis labels and that is only one way of doing it though. You could do it here with the font size
and there, we can use d3 and then the min method to calculate the minimum from an array.
Here we have the height and width of the viewport and then we could multiply this with some font size
multiplicator, for example multiply it with 0.04. Now
I said this is one way of doing it, whoops,
should be outside of these parentheses here though.
So this is one way of doing this, the other way of setting up the font size of course is in our style folder
in the visual.less file. Here we could target our x-axis CSS class,
so here x-axis like that and then we could assign the font size here too.
However here, we couldn't make it dynamic,
so we could set this to 12px here but that would be hardcoded
and wouldn't adjust if we change the styling, so I'm going to comment this out and do it here in d3
or with d3.
So that's the x-axis style, of course also important are the labels and that is kind of related to
my scale
because keep in mind the xScale positions our bars correctly on the x-axis,
so it makes sense to say this is kind of something you also need when defining the labels on the axis
which is what we're trying to do now. After defining the xScale here,
I will create a new variable
x-axis, not to be mistaken with the property where I stored it in
and in there, I want to use d3, the svg helper property
and on that, the axis method which is a convenience method d3 provides for creating an axis with
labels.
Now here, I need to pass a scale and that is the xScale, d3 will then automatically derive where
to position these labels based on our scale which we also use to position our shapes, our rectangles,
the bars.
That is the cool thing about d3,
everything is connected here.
So that is where I place that and orient is a method I can then use to tell it where to place it, at
the bottom.
The nice thing is if we weren't to use these helper methods, you would have to figure out manually where
to place the labels, that they are distributed correctly, where they are positioned in, well in your coordinate
system, that they don't overlap your bars, all things d3 does for you with these two methods,
scale and orient.
And with that, we configured this x-axis,
the remaining thing for me to do is to access the x-axis we initialized here in the constructor,
so the actual place in the svg which we stored in this property and call attributes here to set the
transform attribute, that is a default CSS property and set it to translate which allows us to move
it and in there, the translateX should be zero,
we want to have it, set it on the left edge but seen from the top on,
I will leave my string here, seen from the top, here
I want to push it down to the very bottom and you might say, well doesn't Orient do that?
Orient tells d3 where it will sit in the end and where the labels should be
and how it should position these on the axis but where the axis itself is positioned in your coordinate
system,
this is something you will have to do and that is something we'll do here and attribute of course takes
an object as an argument,
so wrap this in curly braces.
Now I'm pushing my axis down to the very bottom,
this is where I want to place it,
finally what I'll do is I will call x-axis and x-axis
now refers to my variable here.
So to the x-axis I configured here with scale and orient, with call
I now apply this configuration on this shape, the x-axis shape,
keep in mind x-axis refers to this g element in our svg
and now calling this or I'm applying this x-axis configuration on this shape
and now d3 has all the connections it needs to figure out where to place what and how to, well
set it up to look nice.
Now if I save this, I have to go to the visual.less file and actually remove that because I just recognize
this was invalid code,
it would not work correctly, it would give us an error in our command prompt where we ran pbiviz start.
Now to be able to view it though, we have to give some room to our axis and for that, I'll go into my update
method here,
for example after I size the overall svg, what I want to do here is I want to adjust my height variable
after we use that for the overall svg. The overall svg should receive the full height and width
but for all the other initializations, I want to adjust my height to leave some room for the axis.
So here what I will do is, I will set height, whoops, without capslock maybe, height equal to the old height
minus and now some margin, maybe 25
and that will be 25px for the axis. If we now save this and reload our chart, we see here below it,
if I remove that donut here and increase that in size, we see China, France, Germany, India and the USA
and that is now my labels
the axis being added to this.